README.md, before:

# RAG App

A Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) application built with Tauri, SvelteKit, and TypeScript.

## Description

RAG App is a desktop application that combines document retrieval with AI-powered generation capabilities. It allows users to upload documents, create knowledge bases, and perform intelligent question-answering using retrieval-augmented generation techniques.

## Features

- **Document Upload & Processing**: Support for various document formats (PDF, TXT, DOCX)
- **Vector Database**: Efficient document embedding and similarity search
- **AI Integration**: Connect with popular LLM providers for intelligent responses
- **Interactive Chat Interface**: User-friendly chat interface for querying documents
- **Knowledge Base Management**: Organize and manage multiple document collections
- **Cross-Platform**: Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux thanks to Tauri

## Recommended Development Tools

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Svelte](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode) + [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode) + [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

## Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or higher)
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) (recommended) or npm/yarn

## Installation

### Installing Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

### Development Mode

To run the application in development mode:

```bash
pnpm tauri dev
```

### Building the Application

To build the application for production:

```bash
# Build for all formats by default
pnpm tauri build

# Build only the DMG package for macOS
pnpm tauri build --bundles dmg
```

After building, the executables will be available in the `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/` directory.

## Installation on macOS

If macOS blocks opening the DMG or launching the application, follow these steps:

1. Right-click (or Control-click) the DMG file in Finder
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. In the dialog that appears, click "Open"

Alternative method to run the application:

1. After installation, right-click (or Control-click) the application in the Applications folder
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. Confirm that you want to open the application by clicking "Open" in the dialog

After launching this way once, the application will open normally in the future.

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: SvelteKit + TypeScript
- **Backend**: Rust (Tauri)
- **UI Framework**: Svelte
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Package Manager**: pnpm

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies with `pnpm install`
3. Run in development mode with `pnpm tauri dev`
4. Upload your documents and start asking questions!

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Transform clipboard app to RAG app - complete rebrand and fixes
- Rename project from 'clipboard-history-tauri' to 'rag-app' in all files
- Update product name from 'Clipboard History' to 'RAG App'
- Change app identifier from 'com.example.clipboardhistory' to 'com.example.ragapp'
- Update UI text: 'Clipboard History' -> 'RAG Documents', empty state messages
- Fix Rust compilation error: replace emit_all() with emit() in main.rs
- Add troubleshooting section to README with port conflict resolution
- Update window titles and page titles throughout the application

README.md, after:

# RAG App

A Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) application built with Tauri, SvelteKit, and TypeScript.

## Description

RAG App is a desktop application that combines document retrieval with AI-powered generation capabilities. It allows users to upload documents, create knowledge bases, and perform intelligent question-answering using retrieval-augmented generation techniques.

## Features

- **Document Upload & Processing**: Support for various document formats (PDF, TXT, DOCX)
- **Vector Database**: Efficient document embedding and similarity search
- **AI Integration**: Connect with popular LLM providers for intelligent responses
- **Interactive Chat Interface**: User-friendly chat interface for querying documents
- **Knowledge Base Management**: Organize and manage multiple document collections
- **Cross-Platform**: Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux thanks to Tauri

## Recommended Development Tools

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Svelte](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode) + [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode) + [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

## Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or higher)
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) (recommended) or npm/yarn

## Installation

### Installing Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

### Development Mode

To run the application in development mode:

```bash
pnpm tauri dev
```

### Building the Application

To build the application for production:

```bash
# Build for all formats by default
pnpm tauri build

# Build only the DMG package for macOS
pnpm tauri build --bundles dmg
```

After building, the executables will be available in the `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/` directory.

## Installation on macOS

If macOS blocks opening the DMG or launching the application, follow these steps:

1. Right-click (or Control-click) the DMG file in Finder
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. In the dialog that appears, click "Open"

Alternative method to run the application:

1. After installation, right-click (or Control-click) the application in the Applications folder
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. Confirm that you want to open the application by clicking "Open" in the dialog

After launching this way once, the application will open normally in the future.

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: SvelteKit + TypeScript
- **Backend**: Rust (Tauri)
- **UI Framework**: Svelte
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Package Manager**: pnpm

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies with `pnpm install`
3. Run in development mode with `pnpm tauri dev`
4. Upload your documents and start asking questions!

## Troubleshooting

### Port 1420 Already in Use

If you encounter an error saying "Port 1420 is already in use" when running `pnpm tauri dev`, you can kill the process using that port:

```bash
kill -9 $(lsof -ti:1420)
```

Then try running the development server again:

```bash
pnpm tauri dev
```

### Node.js Version Issues

Make sure you're using Node.js version 18 or higher. You can check your version with:

```bash
node --version
```

If you're using conda, you can update Node.js with:

```bash
conda install nodejs=20 -y
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
